Document Datadog Serverless CLI (#8282)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/serverless/installation/nodejs.md

      text: 'Installing Ruby Serverless Monitoring'
---

> After you have installed the [AWS integration][1] and the [Forwarder][2], choose one of the following methods to instrument your application to send metrics, logs, and traces to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have installed the [AWS integration][1] and the [Datadog Forwarder][2], choose one of the following methods to instrument your application to send metrics, logs, and traces to Datadog.
```

## Configuration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

> The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions by using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your function using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

> The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces and logs to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog.
```
Also: "using layers" ... do you mean "adds the library by using layers" or "to your functions that use layers"? or something else?

Author: ah, good catch, i meant "by" using layers.

        flushMetricsToLogs: true
        forwarder: # The Datadog Forwarder ARN goes here.
    ```

>     For more information on the Forwarder ARN, or to install Forwarder see the [Forwarder documentation][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more information on the Forwarder ARN, or to install the Datadog Forwarder see the [Forwarder documentation][2].
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/serverless-plugin-datadog
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/forwarder/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS SAM" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">This service is in public beta. If you have any feedback, contact <a href="/help">Datadog support</a>.</div>

> The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms your SAM application template to add the Datadog Lambda library to your functions by using layers, and configure your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms your SAM application template to add the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configure your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].
```

### Install the Datadog CloudFormation Macro

> Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to install the macro as a CloudFormation stack. You only need to install the macro once for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to deploy a CloudFormation stack that installs the macro AWS resource. You only need to install the macro once for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.
```

```sh
aws cloudformation create-stack \
  --stack-name datadog-serverless-macro \
  --template-url https://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/serverless-macro/latest.yml \
  --capabilities CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND CAPABILITY_IAM
```

The macro is now deployed and ready to use.

### Instrument the Function

In your `template.yml`, add the following under the `Transform` section, **after** the `AWS::Serverless` transform for SAM.

```
Transform:
  - AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
  - Name: DatadogServerless
    Parameters:
      stackName: !Ref "AWS::StackName"
      nodeLayerVersion: "<LAYER_VERSION>"
      forwarderArn: "<FORWARDER_ARN>"
      service: "<SERVICE>"
      env: "<ENV>"
```

> Replace `<SERVICE>` and `<ENV>` with appropriate values, `<LAYER_VERSION>` with the desired version of Datadog Lambda layer (see the [latest releases][4]), and `<FORWARDER_ARN>` with Forwarder ARN (see the [Forwarder documentation][2]).

Reviewer 3: `service` and `env` are optional parameters, but seem required if a customer is just looking at this page - should we add a note for this?

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-cloudformation-macro
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/forwarder/
[3]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-js/releases
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS CDK" %}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">This service is in public beta. If you have any feedback, contact <a href="/help">Datadog support</a>.</div>

> The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms the CloudFormation template generated by the AWS CDK to add the Datadog Lambda library to your functions by using layers, and configure your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms the CloudFormation template generated by the AWS CDK to add the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configure your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Forwarder][2].
```

### Install the Datadog CloudFormation Macro

> Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to install the macro as a CloudFormation stack. You only need to install the macro **once** for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to deploy a CloudFormation stack that installs the macro AWS resource. You only need to install the macro **once** for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.
```

Add the `DatadogServerless` transform and the `CfnMapping` to your `Stack` object in your AWS CDK app. See the sample code below in TypeScript (the usage in other language should be similar).

```typescript
import * as cdk from "@aws-cdk/core";

class CdkStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);
    this.addTransform("DatadogServerless");

    new cdk.CfnMapping(this, "Datadog", {
      mapping: {
        Parameters: {
          nodeLayerVersion: "<LAYER_VERSION>",
          forwarderArn: "<FORWARDER_ARN>",
          stackName: this.stackName,
          service: "<SERVICE>",
          env: "<ENV>",
        },
      },
    });
  }
}
```

Replace `<SERVICE>` and `<ENV>` with appropriate values, `<LAYER_VERSION>` with the desired version of Datadog Lambda layer (see the [latest releases][3]), and `<FORWARDER_ARN>` with Forwarder ARN (see the [Forwarder documentation][2]).

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-cloudformation-macro
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/forwarder/
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-js/releases
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog CLI" %}}

> <div class="alert alert-warning">This service is in public beta. If you have any feedback, contact <a href="/help">Datadog support</a>.</div>

Reviewer: Isn't the Datadog CLI in private beta? Should we also just name the tab "CLI"?

Author: It was, post dash it's public now

Author: CLI seems too generic for me. Why do you think CLI is better?

> Use the Datadog CLI to set up instrumentation on your Lambda functions in your CI/CD pipelines. The CLI command automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions by using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Datadog CLI to set up instrumentation on your Lambda functions in your CI/CD pipelines. The CLI command automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog.
```

Author: actually I changed this from `using layers` to `by using layers` per doc team's comment, which one is correct?

### Install the Datadog CLI

> Install the Datadog CLI by using NPM or Yarn:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the Datadog CLI with NPM or Yarn:
```

```sh
# NPM
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci

# Yarn
yarn global add @datadog/datadog-ci
```

### Instrument the Function

Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][1]. Replace `<functionname>` and `<another_functionname>` with your Lambda function names, `<aws_region>` with the AWS region name, `<layer_version>` with the desired version of the Datadog Lambda layer (see [latest releases][2]) and `<forwarder_arn>` with Forwarder ARN (see the [Forwarder documentation][3]).

```sh
datadog-ci lambda instrument -f <functionname> -f <another_functionname> -r <aws_region> -v <layer_version> --forwarder	<forwarder_arn>
```

For example:

```sh

> datadog-ci lambda instrument -f my-function -f another-function -r us-east-1 -v 26 --forwarder arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:000000000000:function:datadog-forwarder

Reviewer 4: This looks right to me, but there is more documentation on parameters in the [Github readme of the commands](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/tree/master/src/commands/lambda).Might be worth linking to?

Author: Good point, I should add a link to the readme for other tools too.

[2]: https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home#/stacks?filteringText=forwarder
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/forwarder/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog CLI" %}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">This service is in public beta. If you have any feedback, contact <a href="/help">Datadog support</a>.</div>

> The Datadog CLI allows you to set up instrumentation on your Lambda functions in your CI/CD pipelines. The CLI command automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces and logs to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Datadog CLI to set up instrumentation on your Lambda functions in your CI/CD pipelines. The CLI command automatically adds the Datadog Lambda library to your functions using layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog.
```

Same comment about "using layers."

### Install the Datadog CLI

> The Datadog CLI can be installed through NPM or Yarn:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the Datadog CLI by using NPM or Yarn:
```
